README.md, before:

# Simple POS Compiler

CloudWalk® company had a very interesting idea about software development 
to POS terminals: 

    Let's create a domain specific language to hide the complexity
    of the terminal hardware and development environment and make
    the development easyer for our customers.
    
But, when they implemented it, they came out with the not so interesting 
[POSXML](https://docs.cloudwalk.io/en/posxml/structure) language.

The POSXML language have some unpleasant characteristics:

* It's XML based (arghh)
* It does not have a offline compiler
* It does not have any compile time checking in the commands 
  parameters (xml attributes)
* It does not have the concept of local variables: even if their 
  support says differently, in fact the variables are created in 
  the order they are initialized in the source code and exists 
  from this point on for all the program.
* It does not support parameters for functions
* It has a limit of 255 variables at all
* It does not support arithmetic or logic expressions.
    
I'm sure anyone that must use POSXML will add a lot of things to this list.

When confronted with the need to develop an POS application to run in 
the CloudWalk platform, I've decided to try to minimize some of these 
problems and end up with an application that can be maintained with
a little less effort, creating a compiler that takes programs writen
in a more or less "organized" language and translates them into POSXML.

You must notice that, since the programs will end up as POSXML programs 
anyway, all the limitations of POSXML still apply. But I've managed to
solve some of the biggest troubles with it:

* Using the SimplePOS language (it has some "C" language inspired syntax),
  it's possible to split your program (or module) into a series of source
  files, and link this files into a single POSXML program. It will allow 
  an easier reuse of functions.
* The compiler takes care of the variable scopes, allowing the concept of
  local variables
* The compiler is able to transform complex arithmetic and logical expressions
  in something that can be interpreted by the POSXML compiler.

This project is the SimplePOS compiler and linker, and I hope it's usefull 
to someone besides me.

Please, note that the program uses GPLv3 license, and if you use it 
you must release the source code of the compiler and the applications 
made using it, since the runtime generated by the compiler is covered
by the license. Read the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more 
information.

Commit message:

Basic documentation and addition of comments to the grammar.

README.md, after:

# Simple POS Compiler

CloudWalk® company had a very interesting idea about software development 
to POS terminals: 

    Let's create a domain specific language to hide the complexity
    of the terminal hardware and development environment and make
    the development easyer for our customers.
    
But, when they implemented it, they came out with the not so interesting 
[POSXML](https://docs.cloudwalk.io/en/posxml/structure) language.

The POSXML language have some unpleasant characteristics:

* It's XML based (arghh)
* It does not have a offline compiler
* It does not have any compile time checking in the commands 
  parameters (xml attributes)
* It does not have the concept of local variables: even if their 
  support says differently, in fact the variables are created in 
  the order they are initialized in the source code and exists 
  from this point on for all the program.
* It does not support parameters for functions
* It has a limit of 255 variables at all
* It does not support arithmetic or logic expressions.
    
I'm sure anyone that must use POSXML will add a lot of things to this list.

When confronted with the need to develop an POS application to run in 
the CloudWalk platform, I've decided to try to minimize some of these 
problems and end up with an application that can be maintained with
a little less effort, creating a compiler that takes programs writen
in a more or less "organized" language and translates them into POSXML.

You must notice that, since the programs will end up as POSXML programs 
anyway, all the limitations of POSXML still apply. But I've managed to
solve some of the biggest troubles with it:

* Using the SimplePOS language (it has some "C" language inspired syntax),
  it's possible to split your program (or module) into a series of source
  files, and link this files into a single POSXML program. It will allow 
  an easier reuse of functions.
* The compiler takes care of the variable scopes, allowing the concept of
  local variables
* The compiler is able to transform complex arithmetic and logical expressions
  in something that can be interpreted by the POSXML compiler.

This project is the SimplePOS compiler and linker, and I hope it's usefull 
to someone besides me.

Documentation of the SimplePOS language can be found in [docs/language.md](docs/language.md),
and examples can be found in the [examples](examples) directory.

Please, note that the program uses GPLv3 license, and if you use it 
you must release the source code of the compiler and the applications 
made using it, since the runtime generated by the compiler is covered
by the license. Read the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more 
information.
